---
layout: post
title: Digital Literacy Narrative Version 3 (DLN)
excerpt: "This is about my DLN essay"
modified: 1/31/2023, 9:00:24
tags: [intro, beginner, jekyll, tutorial]
comments: true
category: blog
---

# Title: Navigating the Digital Seas: My Journey of Discovery in Digital Humanities

As an 17-year-old university student embarking on my academic journey, I find myself immersed in the rapidly evolving world of digital humanities. The introductory course in Digital Arts and Humanities has opened my eyes to the myriad intersections between digital culture and the digitized human record. It challenges me to explore new technologies like orange data mining and project gutenberg, while providing me with the tools and skills necessary to navigate this ever-expanding landscape.

In my daily and academic life, content creation and social interaction have become integral aspects of my digital literacy. I rely heavily on various platforms to express my thoughts, share my experiences, and engage with others. Social media platforms like Twitter and Instagram allow me to connect with like-minded individuals, discover new perspectives, and participate in discussions that shape my understanding of the world. Content creation platforms such as YouTube, Github and Medium empower me to share my ideas and insights through videos, articles, and blog posts. These platforms have become my digital canvas, where I can express my creativity and contribute to the digital discourse.

When it comes to research data management and analysis, I have been utilizing various software and platforms to enhance my academic endeavors. For organizing and managing my research data, website based storage services like Github repositories, Positit Cloud and Google drive have proven invaluable. They enable me to access my files from any device and collaborate seamlessly with my peers. Additionally, productivity tools such as Canava and Google Docs aid me in creating and editing documents, presentations, and spreadsheets.

In terms of data manipulation and analysis, I have recently started exploring tools like Voyant, and Mirrordoor to visualize and make sense of complex data sets. These software applications have allowed me to uncover patterns, trends, and correlations within the data, thereby enhancing my understanding of research findings. Moreover, I have dabbled in basic programming languages like Python and R, which have proven to be powerful tools for data manipulation and statistical analysis. The ability to write simple lines of code and automate repetitive tasks has revolutionized my approach to data analysis.

However, as I reflect on my current abilities, I realize that there is still much to learn. The Digital Arts and Humanities course has already introduced me to the foundational concepts and theories that underpin the field. It has equipped me with the skills necessary to critically evaluate theoretical readings and apply them in practical explorations. The hands-on lab sessions have been instrumental in bridging the gap between theory and practice, allowing me to experiment with web publishing, textual analysis, 3d printing and data visualization.

One of the most profound lessons I have learned so far is the importance of data literacy. The course has emphasized the need to understand how data is collected, processed, and analyzed in the arts and humanities. I am becoming increasingly aware of the biases that can be hidden within data and algorithms, which can significantly impact research outcomes and interpretations. This newfound awareness has ignited a sense of responsibility within me to approach data with a critical eye and consider the ethical implications of its use. Furthermore, the course has shed light on the challenges faced in the realm of digital arts and humanities across linguistic and cultural backgrounds. It has sparked discussions about the disparities in cultural data and the need for inclusive practices. Exploring these differences and addressing the associated ethical and technical challenges is crucial to fostering a more equitable and diverse digital landscape.

Looking ahead, I am eager to delve deeper into digital production and expand my technical skills. I aspire to gain a more comprehensive understanding of data modeling, algorithmic classification, and digital mapping. Acquiring these skills will enable me to create compelling digital experiences and engage with complex datasets in a meaningful way.

Additionally, I recognize the importance of effective communication skills in the digital age. The course's emphasis on developing a regular written research blog and delivering oral presentations has highlighted the significance of clear and concise expression. I hope to hone my communication skills further, both in written and oral formats, as effective communication is essential for sharing ideas, presenting research findings, and engaging with diverse audiences.

Moreover, the collaborative nature of the course has shown me the value of teamwork. While I have engaged in individual projects, I believe that collaborative work can foster creativity, encourage different perspectives, and enhance problem-solving abilities. Collaborating with peers allows for the exchange of ideas and the pooling of diverse skills, ultimately leading to more robust and comprehensive outcomes. I look forward to participating in more team-based projects to develop my collaborative skills further. As I navigate the vast ocean of digital humanities, I am excited by the opportunities it presents for exploration, discovery, and innovation. The course has instilled in me a sense of curiosity and a willingness to embrace new technologies. I am eager to continue expanding my knowledge and skill set, keeping pace with the ever-evolving digital landscape.

In conclusion, the introductory course in Digital Arts and Humanities has provided me with a solid foundation in the field, encouraging me to critically analyze theoretical readings and apply them practically. It has equipped me with data literacy skills, enabling me to manipulate, analyze, and visualize data effectively. The course has also emphasized the need for critical reflection on the biases embedded in data and algorithms, as well as the ethical and technical challenges faced in digital arts and humanities. I am inspired to develop my digital production abilities, enhance my communication skills, and embrace collaboration as I continue my journey in this exciting and rapidly evolving field. Through this course, I am confident that I will be better equipped to navigate the digital world, contribute meaningfully to the arts and humanities, and make a positive impact in our increasingly digitized society.

**Resources**: 

[1] Bioinformatics Laboratory, University of Ljubljana. Data Mining. orangedatamining.com.

[2] Posit Cloud - Do, Share, Teach, and Learn Data Science. posit.cloud.

[3] “Lexica.” Lexica, lexica.art.

[4] DALL·E 2. openai.com/product/dall-e-2.

[5] “GitHub: Let’s Build From Here.” GitHub, github.com.

[6] “Project Gutenberg.” Project Gutenberg, gutenberg.com.

[7] Universe, D. “3D Universe - 3D Printers, Supplies and More.” 3D Universe, shop3duniverse.com.

[8] DreamStudio. beta.dreamstudio.ai/generate.